# git

## Setup
1. Create a repository on github account
- Check README.md, Licence.


2. Open Git-bash


3. Change directory to workplace directory `$ cd Document/dev`

4. Copy the repository URL


5. clone the repository to create local repository in current workplace by using

    `$ git clone {repository address}`

6. Create a .gitignore file 

    `$ touch .gitignore`

7. Go to [gitignore.io](https://gitignore.io/) and create gitignore text

8. Copy gitignore text and paste in .gitignore file
    `$ vi .gitigore`
   1. press `i` to edit 
   2. `right-click` and `paste`
   3. press `esc` and type `:wq` to write and quit
9. vimrc is a preference

## Commit
1. Type `$ git status` or `$ git status -uall` to see what changes have been tracked by git.

2. To stage changes, `$ git add {file name}`
    - It is recommanded to add by work item, not all at once.
    - Check the stage by `$ git status`
3. To commit,
    `$ git commit`
        - Use [conventional commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/ko/v1.0.0/)
4. To push,
    `$ git push origin main`
    origin is a remote variable that contains repository address when it was cloned on setup.

## Pull
    Synchronize local repository with github repository. And, it merges latest commit from github repository and local repository automatically.
    `$ git pull {branch name}`

## Fetch
    Synchronize local repository if there is an update on github repository. 
    `$ git fetch {upstream branch name}
## Merge
    Merges changes of working files in local repository if there is any. 
    Need to resolve conflict if there is any.
    `$ git merge`
